This is the last technique I will show
you to evaluate your NMT systems.
It is very simple and
works surprisingly well when compared to
the other techniques, let's get started.
>> Earlier, you encountered random
sampling to choose a probable token and
the issues with that decoding method.
But if you go a little further with that,
say by generating 30 samples and
comparing them all against one another.
You'll see quite a bit of
improvements in your decoding.
You'll have to compare multiple
candidate translations for
the minimum bayes risk decoding method,
MBR for shorts.
Implementing MBR is
pretty straightforward.
Begin by generating several random
samples, then compare each sample
against each other using a similarity
score or a loss function.
ROUGE would be a good choice that
you may recall from a bit earlier.
Finally, choose the sample with
the highest average similarity or
the lowest loss.
The translation that you get using this
method is the closest to all candidate
translations.
This process can be viewed
as some authors suggest,
as finding a consensus between
all candidate translations.
If you decide to use ROUGE score
as a similarity metric for
comparing every pair of
candidate translations,
you would have MBR summarized
in the formula presented here.
Your goal is to find the candidate
translation E that maximizes
the average ROUGE score with
every other candidates E prime.
So MBR is relatively easy to implement.
You need to have multiple
candidate translations and
select a way to compare them.
But for the sake of clarity,
let's go through an implementation
process in more detail.
Here are the steps for
implementing MVR with ROUGE on a small
set of four candidate translations.
First, calculate the ROUGE score
between the first C subscript 1 and
the second C subscript 2
candidate translations.
For the 1st and 3rd and
for the 1st and 4th,
then compute the average R subscript
1 using those three rules scores.
Then you repeat this process for
the other three candidates in your sets to
average ROUGE scores for each one of them.
Finally, you select the candidate with
the highest average ROUGE score and
that's it for MBR,
you'll be implementing this method in the
assignment along with a greedy decoder.
In summary, MBR takes several
translation candidates and
compares them against each other.
Then chooses the one with the highest
average similarity as the beam
search case.
This method can give you a more
contextually accurate translation than
random sampling and greedy decoding.
>> Congratulations on finishing this week,
you now know how to implement in your own
machine translation system and
you also know how to evaluate it.
Next week, I'll talk about one of
the states of the arts models known as
the transformer, which also makes use
of an encoder decoder architecture.